URL: https://www.investor.gov/introduction-investing/investing-basics/investment-products/tokenized-securities
Captured: 2026-09-06T08:09:30.108587+00:00

Tokenized Securities | Investor.gov
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know
Here’s how you know
The .gov means it’s official.
Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you’re on a federal government site.
The site is secure.
The
https://
ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely.
Investor.gov
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
Auxiliary Header
About Us
Contact Us
Follow Us
Glossary
Información en Español
Search Investor.gov
Main navigation
Introduction to Investing
Getting Started
Five Questions to Ask Before You Invest
Understanding Fees
Asset Allocation and Diversification
Investing on Your Own
Working with an Investment Professional
Researching Investments
Investing Basics
Save and Invest
Invest For Your Goals
How Stock Markets Work
Investment Accounts
Investment Products
Glossary
What is Risk?
Role of the SEC
General Resources
Investor Alerts & Bulletins
Publications and Research
Financial Tools & Calculators
Financial Tools
Investment Professional Background Check
EDGAR - Search Company Filings
Fund Analyzer
Retirement Ballpark E$timate
Social Security Retirement Estimator
Calculators
Compound Interest Calculator
Savings Goal Calculator
Required Minimum Distribution Calculator
College Savings Calculator
Protect Your Investments
Fraud
Types of Fraud
How to Avoid Fraud
Resources for Victims
Get Help
Submit Questions and Complaints
Arbitration and Mediation Clinics
Additional Resources
Spotlight
Common Scams
Crypto Assets
HoweyTrade
Never Stop Learning
Public Service Campaign
World Investor Week
Investing Quizzes
Videos
Retirement Toolkit
First Job
Switching Jobs
Employer-Sponsored Plans
Federal Government Plans
Managing Lifetime Income
Senior Specialist Designations
Social Security
Avoiding Retirement Fraud
Information For:
Students
Military
Veterans
Older Investors
Teachers
Youth
Entrepreneurs
Breadcrumb
Home
Introduction to Investing
Investment Products
Main navigation
Save and Invest
Define Your Goals
Diversify Your Investments
Figure Out Your Finances
Gauge Your Risk Tolerance
Learn About Investment Options
Pay Off Credit Cards or Other High Interest Debt
Save for a Rainy Day
Small Savings Add Up to Big Money
Understand What It Means to Invest
Invest For Your Goals
How Stock Markets Work
Public Companies
Market Participants
Types of Orders
Types of Brokerage Accounts
Stock Purchases and Sales: Long and Short
Executing an Order
Investment Accounts
Advisory Accounts
Brokerage Accounts
Tax-Advantaged Accounts
ABLE Accounts
Education Savings - 529 Plans
HSAs (Health Savings Accounts)
Retirement Savings
401 (k)
403(b) and 457(b) Plans
Individual Retirement Accounts (IRAs)
Trump Accounts
Investment Products
Annuities
Indexed Annuities
Variable Annuities
Auction Rate Securities
Bonds or Fixed Income Products
Bonds
Corporate Bonds
High-yield Corporate Bonds
Municipal Bonds
Savings Bonds
Certificates of Deposit (CDs)
Closed End Funds
Interval Funds
Publicly Traded Business Development Companies (BDCs)
Publicly Traded Closed-End Funds
Commodities
International Investing
Mutual Funds and Exchange-Traded Funds (ETFs)
Alternative Mutual Funds
Leveraged Loan Funds
Exchange-Traded Funds (ETFs)
Index Funds
Money Market Funds
Mutual Funds
Smart Beta, Quant Funds and other Non- Traditional Index Funds
Target Date Funds
Options or Derivatives
Private Investment Funds
Hedge Funds
Private Equity Funds
Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs)
Stocks
Structured Notes with Principal Protection
Tokenized Securities
Variable Life Products
Glossary
What is Risk?
Role of the SEC
How to Submit Comments to the SEC
Researching the Federal Securities Laws Through the SEC Website
The Laws That Govern the Securities Industry
Tokenized Securities
Tokenized securities (also called "digital securities") are financial instruments – such as stocks, bonds, or fund interests – that are formatted as or represented by a crypto asset recorded on a blockchain or similar distributed ledger.
Common examples of tokenized securities include:
Tokenized stocks or equity interests in a company
Tokenized bonds or debt instruments
Tokenized fund shares, including money market or real estate funds
There are different models tokenizing securities:
Issuer-sponsored Tokenized Securities.
The company itself (or its agent) issues the security directly on a blockchain. In this model, the security carries the same legal rights – voting, dividends, ownership – as a traditional share of the same class. Note, however, that a tokenized security could be of a different class of securities from those issued in traditional form.
Custodial Tokenized Securities
: In this model, the token represents the token holder’s indirect interest in the underlying security via a security entitlement. The token holder receives the same rights, obligations, and benefits as a traditional shareholder. Essentially, holding the token is the equivalent of holding the underlying security through a securities intermediary like a broker-dealer.
Synthetic Tokenized Securities:
In this model, a third party may tokenize a security issued by another person by issuing a linked security or derivative that provides synthetic exposure to a referenced security. Under this model, the price of the tokenized security changes with the price of the referenced security, but the investor has no claims or rights against the issuer of the referenced security. The rights, obligations and benefits received by the token holder of a synthetic tokenized security may differ significantly from those of a traditional owner in the underlying security.
On March 17, 2026, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission” or “SEC”) issued an
interpretive release
to provide greater clarity on the SEC’s treatment of crypto assets under the federal securities laws.
According to this interpretation, tokenized securities are securities and are subject to SEC regulation and investor protections.
The SEC’s
interpretive release
distinguishes among:
Digital Securities:
Tokenized traditional financial instruments (stocks, bonds, fund interests).
These ARE securities and are subject to SEC regulation and investor protections
.
Digital Commodities:
Crypto assets like bitcoin or ether that derive value from their associated blockchain networks and supply and demand, not from a company's performance.
These ARE NOT securities and ARE NOT subject to SEC regulation and investor protections
.
Digital Collectibles:
Crypto assets that are designed to be collected and/or used and may represent or convey rights to artwork, music, trading cards, in-game items, or digital representations or references to internet memes, characters, current events, or trends, among other things.
These ARE NOT securities and ARE NOT subject to SEC regulation and investor protections
.
Digital Tools:
Crypto assets that perform a practical function, such as a membership, ticket, credential, title instrument, or identity badge.
These ARE NOT securities and ARE NOT subject to SEC regulation and investor protections.
Stablecoins:
Stablecoins as defined in the
GENIUS ACT
are a “payment stablecoin issued by a permitted payment stablecoin issuer.”
These ARE NOT securities and ARE NOT subject to SEC regulation and investor protections
.
IMPORTANT
:
Although the SEC’s
interpretive release
identifies digital commodities, digital collectibles and digital tools as
non-securities
, it also notes that any such asset may still  be offered or sold through an investment contract, which is itself a security.
For additional information on tokenized securities please read:
SEC’s
Statement on Tokenized Securities
SEC’s
Interpretive Release on the Application of the Federal Securities Laws to Certain Types of Crypto Assets and Certain Transaction Involving Crypto Assets
.
SEC’s Office of the Advocate for Small Business Capital Formation Building Blocks
“Crypto Assets and the Federal Securities Laws”
SEC’s Office of the Advocate for Small Business Capital Formation Building Blocks
“Transactions Involving Crypto Assets”
The content of this webpage represents the views of the staff of the Office of Investor Education and Assistance.  This content is not a rule, regulation, or statement of the Commission.  The Commission has neither approved nor disapproved the content of this webpage.  The content of this webpage, like all staff statements, has no legal force or effect: it does not alter or amend applicable law, and it creates no new or additional obligations for any person.
Featured Content
Take This Month's Quiz
Check your knowledge of Trump Accounts in our September investing quiz!
Jumpstart Your Child's Financial Future
Learn how to enroll in a Trump Account today!
Use Financial Tools and Calculators
Access RMD, compound interest and savings goal calculators plus other financial tools.
Invest in Your Future. Protect It Today.
Learn more about World Investor Week, a global campaign to raise awareness about the importance of investor education and protection.
Never stop learning about investing!
Stay up to date with Investor Alerts & Bulletins, Quizzes, and more.
Get Email Updates from Investor.gov
Sign up for Investor Updates Enter Email Address
Site Information
SEC.gov
MyMoney.gov
FOIA
Plain Writing
Privacy
Vulnerability Disclosure Policy
USA.gov
Disclaimer
Multilingual Disclaimer
Return to Top
